Round Robin Edits -JB (#206)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/05.heterogeneity.md

## Learning representations from rare disease data

> When an appropriate training dataset is present, dimensionality reduction methods can help explore and visualize underlying structure in the dataset.

Reviewer: First part doesn't strike me as essential

```suggestion
Dimensionality reduction methods can help explore and visualize underlying structure in the dataset.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Dimensionality reduction methods can help explore and visualize underlying structure in the dataset (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13056-x]), to define sample subgroups (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-15351-4], or for feature selection and extraction during application of specific machine learning models [@doi:10.1007/978-3-030-03243-2_299-1] (Figure [@fig:2]c).
```

> When an appropriate training dataset is present, dimensionality reduction methods can help explore and visualize underlying structure in the dataset.

Author: ```suggestion
When an appropriate training dataset is present, dimensionality reduction methods can help explore and visualize underlying structure in the dataset (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13056-x]), to define sample subgroups (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-15351-4], or for feature selection and extraction during application of specific machine learning models [@doi:10.1007/978-3-030-03243-2_299-1] (Figure [@fig:2]c).
```

> These methods ‘compress’ information from a large number of features into a smaller number of features in an unsupervised manner [@doi:10.1007/978-3-540-33037-0; @doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202, @https://www.jmlr.org/papers/v9/vandermaaten08a.html; @https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426] (Figure {@fig:2}).

Author: ```suggestion
These methods ‘compress’ information from a large number of features into a smaller number of features in an unsupervised manner [@doi:10.1007/978-3-540-33037-0; @doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202, @https://www.jmlr.org/papers/v9/vandermaaten08a.html; @https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03426; @doi:10.1016/j.media.2020.101660; @doi:10.1038/ncomms14825] (Figure {@fig:2}).
```

An example of a method that is commonly used for dimensionality reduction is principal components analysis (PCA).
PCA identifies new features or dimensions, termed principal components (PCs), that are combinations of original features.
The PCs are calculated in a way that maximizes the amount of information (_variance_) they contain and ensures that each PC is uncorrelated with the other PCs [@doi:10.1098/rsta.2015.0202].
In practice, researchers often use the first few PCs to reduce the dimensionality without removing what may be important or informative variability in the data.

> Beyond reducing the number of features in various types of data [@doi:10.1016/j.media.2020.101660; @doi:10.1038/ncomms14825], dimensionality reduction can also be used to visualize structure or artifacts in the data (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13056-x]), to define sample subgroups (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-15351-4], or for feature selection and extraction during application of specific machine learning models [@doi:10.1007/978-3-030-03243-2_299-1] (Figure [@fig:2]c). 

Reviewer: This sentence seems repetitive now that you've added the first sentence in this section.

> Beyond reducing the number of features in various types of data [@doi:10.1016/j.media.2020.101660; @doi:10.1038/ncomms14825], dimensionality reduction can also be used to visualize structure or artifacts in the data (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-019-13056-x]), to define sample subgroups (e.g., [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-15351-4], or for feature selection and extraction during application of specific machine learning models [@doi:10.1007/978-3-030-03243-2_299-1] (Figure [@fig:2]c). 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Testing multiple dimensionality reduction methods, rather than a single method, may be necessary to obtain a more comprehensive portrait of the data [@doi:10.1186/s13059-020-02021-3]. 
Nguyen and Holmes discuss additional important considerations for using dimensionality reduction methods such as selection criteria and interpretation of results [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006907].
Beyond dimensionality reduction, other unsupervised learning approaches such as k-means clustering or hierarchical clustering have been used to characterize the structure present in genomic or imaging data [@doi:10.1186/1471-2105-9-497; @doi:10.1109/jbhi.2013.2276766].

Representation learning approaches, of which dimensionality reduction methods are a subset, learns low-dimensional representations (composite features) from the raw data. 
For example, representation learning through matrix factorization can extract features from transcriptomics datasets that are made of combinations of gene expression values found in the training data [@doi:10.1038/s41467-020-14666-6], and use them to interpret test data [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btq503; @doi:10.1186/s13059-020-02021-3].

> To ensure that the learned representations are generalizable to other data, the features learned by the model can be constrained through methods like regularization [@doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1004754, @doi:10.1002/sim.6782]. 

Reviewer: I think something _like this sentence_ is required _somewhere._ However, we have not yet introduced the concept of regularization by the time the reader has gotten here.

Author: I think I included this in the model complexity section and took it away from this section.

Author: Line 28 of model-complexity.md refers to this .. let me know if that does not quite capture what we were trying to convey here.

> Dimensionality reduction methods are a subset of representation learning, which learns low-dimensional representations (or composite features) from the raw data. 

Reviewer: The emphasis here should be on representation learning, so I disagree with this change in ordering.

> Dimensionality reduction methods are a subset of representation learning, which learns low-dimensional representations (or composite features) from the raw data. 

Author: ```suggestion
Representation learning approaches (which include dimensionality reduction) learn low-dimensional representations (composite features) from the raw data.
```

> Once the dimensions of the training dataset have been reduced, model training can proceed using the experimental design as outlined in Box 1.

Reviewer: Is this supposed to speak to the context of feature-representation-transfer or be more general?

Author: More general at this stage
